MANNERS AND ATTITUDE

Welcome back! My name is Daniel Moniz, and I am a gamer.

In the previous post, I signed off with my game handle, 'Paragon' (sometimes
ParagonRG; more on this another time). This choice of name is pretty meaningful
to me, and no, I did not get it from Mass Effect. My preferred definition of 
Paragon is:

"An ideal instance; a perfect embodiment of a concept."

I use the term not as a descriptor of myself, but rather as a goal to work
toward. And believe it or not, perfection in the game at hand is not even my 
goal; simply put, I choose to pick reasonable goals. Instead, I strive to be
the best student of any game given my own limitations and shortcomings. If I
commit to a game, I not only play it as often as I can; I research its
strategies, take notes on my daily failures, and teach what I can to anyone
requiring of my instruction.

This combination of things does not make me the best player in the world at any
given game*. It does, however, allow me to think about the game in interesting
ways. Taking notes helps me to minimize my mistakes. Researching its strategies
minimizes the time I need to spend developing those strategies from scratch. Lastly, 
teaching people gives me interesting perspectives on how a person is best able
to learn. I can then use this knowledge to further my own abilities in the
future.

In addition to the handle 'Paragon', which consistently reminds me of what I
strive to achieve, I also have firmly rejected the standard 'gl hf' (good luck,
have fun) introduction to a given game. Rather than wish a person luck in a
strategy game, I would clearly prefer to wish them skill. If they are skilled
and I win, I can be proud of my victory. If I lose against such a player, I have
lessons to be gained. Lastly, luck plays a role in all games without perfect
information (eg. fog of war in RTS games, or limited 90 degree view in an FPS),
and everyone gets lucky sometimes. The more often this happens, the likilier the
player is highly skilled.

Instead, I choose to type "gs hf", meaning "good skill, have fun". This also
means that I will not deride my opponent for being 'lucky'. In the same vein, I
always make sure to give a polite 'gg' to my opponent when the game is finished.
Respect your opponent; without them you wouldn't have a game.

This should be the last bit about me, rather than my experiences. Next time I
will discuss win ratios (or kill/death ratios, depending on the game/genre), 
and why they are often not important in modern competitive gaming.

Sincerely,

Daniel Moniz

---------------------------

*I was the best in the world for 3 years at Nerdbucket's "Skwerl Invaders". My
gamer tag at the time was 'Evilmeat'. Fittingly enough, I lost the record to a
housemate to whom I taught everything I knew.

Acknowledgements:
- Larry Smith, Professor at the University of Waterloo. He taught me, and just
  about every other student who took Econ101, to understand that we should be
  wishing success upon our friends (which comes from hard work) rather than 
  luck.
- Obi Wan Kenobi. "In my experience, there's no such thing as luck."
